# pumabot

pumabot is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was
initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot]. Like all
Hubots, it's configured so it can be deployed on [Heroku][heroku];
however, the production version of pumabot runs on [AJ][]'s server.

You can find pumabot hanging out in `#pump.io` on Freenode.

[heroku]: http://www.heroku.com
[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot
[AJ]: https://strugee.net

### Features

pumabot has a number of useful abilities. It can:

* Keep track of karma (`username++`)
* Report on new activity on the pump.io GitHub organization
* Say things at certain times, like cron (`pumabot: help job`)
* Tell somone something when they come back online (`pumabot: help tell`)
* Help run meetings (`pumabot: help meeting`)
* Compare git branches (`pumabot: help compare`)
* Look up issue titles when they're mentioned (`#1337`)
* Say the title of the page when someone mentions an arbitrary URL (`http://example.com`)
* Tell you where its source code lives (`pumabot: where's the source?`)

It can also:

* Help you ship things (`pumabot: ship it`)
* Show cute pictures of pugs (`pumabot: help pug`)
* Say (usually inaccurately) how happy people are (`pumabot: help check`)
* Shoot foam darts at other people (`pumabot: help shoot`)
* Open doors (`pumabot: open the pod bay doors`)

You might also try saying:

* "I like pie"
* "lulz"
* `pumabot: what is the answer to the ultimate question of life?`
* `pumabot: you're a little slow`
* `pumabot: have some soda` (`pumabot: sleep it off`)

pumabot also understands how to take commands over the XMPP bridge.

### Running pumabot Locally

You can start pumabot locally by running:

    % eval "$(sed 's/^/export /g' hubot.environment)"
    % bin/hubot

(The first command sets up the environment based on `hubot.environment`.)

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:

    [Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
    pumabot>

Then you can interact with pumabot by typing `pumabot help`.

    pumabot> pumabot help
    pumabot animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
    pumabot help - Displays all of the help commands that pumabot knows about.
    ...

### Configuration

Some scripts require environment variables to be set as a simple form
of configuration.

Each script should have a commented header which contains a "Configuration"
section that explains which values it requires to be placed in which variable.
When you have lots of scripts installed this process can be quite labour
intensive. The following shell command can be used as a stop gap until an
easier way to do this has been implemented.

    grep -o 'hubot-[a-z0-9_-]\+' external-scripts.json | \
      xargs -n1 -I {} sh -c 'sed -n "/^# Configuration/,/^#$/ s/^/{} /p" \
          $(find node_modules/{}/ -name "*.coffee")' | \
        awk -F '#' '{ printf "%-25s %s\n", $1, $2 }'

If you need to specify an environment variable, you can add it to
`hubot.environment` and it will automatically be picked up in
production. The only variable that's missing from that file, aside
from operations-related values (and secrets), is
`HUBOT_ANSWER_TO_THE_ULTIMATE_QUESTION_OF_LIFE_THE_UNIVERSE_AND_EVERYTHING`.

### Extending

You can write custom scripts and put them in `scripts/` - check out
what's there to get a feel for what you can do (especially
`example.coffee`). You might also find
the [Scripting Guide](scripting-docs) useful.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

You can also pull in functionality from npm modules - this is
generally preferred. You can get a list of available hubot plugins
on [npmjs.com][npmjs] or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...


To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

##### Advanced Usage

It is also possible to define `external-scripts.json` as an object to
explicitly specify which scripts from a package should be included. The example
below, for example, will only activate two of the six available scripts inside
the `hubot-fun` plugin, but all four of those in `hubot-auto-deploy`.

```json
{
  "hubot-fun": [
    "crazy",
    "thanks"
  ],
  "hubot-auto-deploy": "*"
}
```

**Be aware that not all plugins support this usage and will typically fallback
to including all scripts.**

[npmjs]: https://www.npmjs.com

##  Persistence

Hubot uses `hubot-redis-brain` for persistence. [AJ][] runs a Redis in
production for this, but you'll probably want it for dev environments
too.

## Deployment

Install Redis and Node.js/npm, then:

    % sudo npm install -g pump-io/pumabot

You'll also need to configure systemd with adapter variables and
secrets.

See also the [deploying hubot onto UNIX][deploy-unix] wiki page.

[deploy-unix]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/deploying/unix.md
